Throughout history, Jehovah has provided
for the spiritual needs of his people.
Jehovah has also given his people
what’s needed to carry out any work
he has assigned them to do.
In modern times, Jehovah has used
printed literature to provide spiritual food.
But in recent years,
digital media has become readily available.
Have you wondered what impact
the increased use of electronic publications
and the emphasis on using
the new Teaching Toolbox
has had on the amount
of literature being printed?
How has the brotherhood benefited
from these adjustments?
As you watch the following video,
it will become obvious
that a significant amount of money
is being saved each year.
This has allowed the organization
to reallocate those funds
to other critically needed areas,
such as disaster relief,
and to help compensate
for unavoidable rising operational costs
at facilities around the world.
As prophesied in the book of Isaiah,
Jehovah’s people enjoy a great variety
of spiritual food in this time of the end
—JW Broadcasting®, jw.org®,
Bible releases in one language after another.
Jehovah generously provides
all of the resources needed
in order to prepare and serve
this rich banquet to our worldwide brotherhood.
And while all of the silver
and gold belong to Jehovah,
he has not given his people unlimited resources.
Rather, he dignifies his people
with the privilege
of managing the resources
that he has provided.
The Governing Body is careful to constantly
“make sure of the more important things”
as they direct the use of these resources
in areas that will do the most good.
How have they made sure
of the more important things
in providing printed publications
throughout the years?
Since the 1870’s, printed publications
have played an important role
in dispensing spiritual food.
Through the years,
much of the organization’s resources
have been allocated for the machinery, buildings,
and support of the brothers
that have cared for printing.
During the 20th century,
printeries sprang up in one country after another.
By the 1970’s, there were 37 printing branches
with 64 large printing presses
and, by the ’90’s, 28 bindery lines.
Around this time, a series
of significant technological improvements
were made in the printing and binding industry.
Taking advantage of these technologies,
the organization increased
their printing and binding capacity
while at the same time reducing the number
of printing branches and personnel.
For example, starting in 2003,
the worldwide printing
and bindery capacity was upgraded
with the purchase of seven new,
high-speed MAN Roland web presses
and the installation
of a new, deluxe-cover bindery line.
As a result,
in less than four years,
the number of printery personnel
had been reduced by 25 percent.
Of course, over time our needs change,
both for the brotherhood and for the field.
Additionally, new developments
prompt the organization
to reevaluate how resources can best be used.
For example, significant adjustments
in the late ’80’s and early ’90’s
better equipped the organization
to support translation into new languages.
Additionally, in 2005, a higher priority
was given to Bible translation.
This would allow more language groups
to benefit from the New World Translation,
especially where it had become difficult
to obtain an acceptable Bible translation
at a reasonable cost.
More recently, there has been a change
in how people consume information.
As a result, greater emphasis has been placed
on digital media, including videos.
All the while,
demand for printed literature continued to grow,
especially for the field ministry.
In recent years, 85 percent
of our global printing work
was dedicated to publications
used in the field ministry.
So a growing need in translation,
a growing need for digital publications,
and production of publications
for the field continued to increase.
How has the Governing Body
made sure of the more important things
in view of these developments?
Consider a few recent decisions
and their impact.
In 2008, the public edition
of The Watchtower was introduced
and we began to offer
only one issue in the field ministry each month.
In 2013, the Awake!
and the public edition of The Watchtower
were reduced from 32 to 16 pages.
This allowed for two magazines
to be printed at once.
Then, in 2016 and again in 2018,
decisions were made to reduce the number
of issues of the Awake!
and the public edition of The Watchtower.
These decisions allowed for more languages
to begin translating the magazines.
They also reduced
our magazine-printing workload by 63 percent
over the past ten years.
Other recent adjustments include
no longer distributing
hard copy releases at conventions,
the simplified Teaching Toolbox,
eliminating specific monthly literature offers,
and the increased emphasis
on using the Bible.
All of these decisions
have reduced the printing
of books used in the ministry
by 25 percent over the past three years.
What have been the results
of the reduction in printing needs?
For one, less space or buildings are needed
for our global printing work.
Also, instead of reinvesting
in new printing equipment,
funds were able to be reallocated to other areas.
Consider a few examples.
In 2009, rather than invest
in new presses for the Italy and Spain branches,
it was determined that their work
could now be absorbed
by the higher-capacity presses recently installed
in Britain and Central Europe.
In 2016, consideration needed to be given
to the aging press in Australasia.
It was determined
that the Japan branch could care for their needs,
avoiding further investment.
The original plans
for the new branch in Chelmsford, Britain
included a new, large printery.
However, the reduction in printing
allowed for Britain’s work to be absorbed
by Central Europe and other printeries in 2018.
This has resulted in saving millions of dollars
in new construction costs.
Similar savings were also experienced
by consolidating the printing of Argentina,
India, and the Philippines to other branches.
Currently, there are six bookbinding branches
and three additional branches with web presses
that print magazines, brochures, and tracts.
Of course, as printing was consolidated,
staffing levels were also reduced.
Today, a total of 1,100 serve
as full-time printery workers worldwide.
This represents
a further reduction
of 350 full-time workers over the past decade.
What have been some
of the notable benefits of these adjustments?
For one thing, the organization is now free
to do more for the brothers in other areas.
Consider a few examples.
Additional resources are now available
to help support the growing number
of translation teams worldwide.
As of September 2018,
the number of languages
in which we have produced literature
has increased from 488 in 2010
to over 900 today.
In 2012
(before the introduction of 16-page magazines),
the study edition of The Watchtower
was translated into 158 languages.
Now, only six years later,
the language count
has more than doubled to 335 languages.
Especially noteworthy is the increase
in the number of languages
that now have the New World Translation.
For the first 40 years
after its initial release,
the New World Translation was made available,
in whole or in part, in 38 languages.
However, in just the last 18 years,
this number
has more than quadrupled to 177 languages!
Some of these language groups
did not have a reliable secular translation
in their language.
Now, even in languages
where there are only a few hundred publishers,
our brothers are delighted
to enjoy the best translation
of Jehovah’s Word in their mother tongue.
More resources can now be used
to develop content on jw.org®
in nearly 1,000 languages.
People who have never read
our publications before
are now receiving a witness
thanks to the extraordinary reach of jw.org®.
And the impact of the website
on the brotherhood has been amazing.
Think, for example, of how the online Study Bible
has deepened our knowledge of God’s Word
—enriching our faith—
and how JW Broadcasting®
has unified our brotherhood
just when we need it the most
in this time of the end.
This is so important!
Certainly, the beneficial impact
of these recent decisions
is readily evident.
Jehovah is blessing his people
with a wide variety of spiritual food
like never before in history.
This is a result of “the faithful and discreet slave”
making sure of the more important things.
What a thrill to work
along with Jehovah’s organization
and witness his divine blessing upon it!